.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.\"
.TH QSTATUS 1 "21 JUNE 2017" "qstatus 2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
qstatus \- show the status of Grid Engine jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qstatus
.RB [ "\-acghilmprtvy" ]
.RB [ "\-j \fIjob_states" ]
.RB [ "\-n \fIlimit" ]
.RB [ "\-s \fIsort_field\fR,..." ]
.RB [ "\-u \fIuser\fR,..." ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents \fBqstatus\fP, a script to reformat the
output of the Grid Engine command
.M qstat 1 .
.PP
The reformatted list is by default limited to the actual user account. This can be changed to request a job
list of any user by supplying the username \fIuser\fR as an argument to the \fB-u\fR option, or requesting an output for all users with the \fB\-a\fR switch (see below).
.SS Options
.TP
.B \-a
Display the jobs of all users. May not be used when one or more
dedicated users are specified (with \fB-u\fR).
.TP
.B \-u \fIuser\fR,...
Display jobs for the given \fIuser\fRs. Default is equivalent to \[oq]\fB-u\fR $USER\[cq].
.TP
.B \-c
Display statistics, summarised by user.
.TP
.B \-g
Group output by owner. Only applicable if the owner is listed,
either by the \fB\-a\fR switch, or via multiple users listed with the \fB-u\fR option.
.br
Equivalent to \[oq]\fB\-s\fR \fBowner\fR,\fBremaining\fR\[cq], and overrides \fB-s\fR.
.TP
.B \-h
Print help.
.TP
.B \-p
Include jobs which are suspended in the list of running jobs.
.TP
.B \-l
Suppress the output of the list of jobs. Maybe useful in case
you are only interested in the summary with the \fB\-c\fR switch.
.TP
.B \-u \fIj|w\fR,...
Types of jobs to list: r(unning, including suspended with \fB-p\fR), w(aiting). Default is both, which is equivalent to \[oq]\fB\-j\fR \fBrw\fR\[cq].
.TP
.B \-m
Display the machine instead of the name of the queue the job is
running in under the column \[oq]Running in\[cq].
.TP
.B \-n \fIlimit\fR
Show only the top \fIlimit\fR results for the job listings. 
.TP
.B \-t
Show the start/end times as relative durations (e.g. HH:MM:SS elapsed/remaining) instead of absolute date-times.
.TP
.B \-s \fIsort_field\fR,...
Sort the output according to the given columns.
.PP
.RS
\fIsort_field\fR can be one of:
\fBjob\fR, \fBowner\fR, \fBname\fR, \fBrunning\fR, \fBslots\fR, \fBpriority\fR, \fBelapsed\fR, \fBremaining\fR, or \fBtime\fR (equivalent to \fBelapsed\fR descending, then \fBremaining\fR ascending).
.PP
The default is \fBremaining\fR for running jobs and \fBpriority\fR for waiting jobs, unless \fB-g\fR is specified.
.RE
.TP
.B \-r
Reverse the sort order.
.TP
.B \-i
Append task ID to the jobname for array tasks. This option has no effect for non-array jobs.
.TP
.B \-y
Collapse array jobs into a single entry in the waiting jobs list (has no effect for running jobs). Implies \fB-i\fR
.TP
.B \-v
Report the program version.
.SH AUTHOR
Ian Grant <ian.grant@kcl.ac.uk>.
.br
Adapted from original code supplied with Son of Grid Engine (SGE) by Reuti
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <ian.grant@kcl.ac.uk>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2017 Ian Grant, Rosalind Partners/King's College London, \[co] 2010 Philipps-University of Marburg.
.br
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of the
.URL http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html "GNU General Public License" .
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M qstat 1
.SH BUGS
Originally written for the Son of Grid Engine (SGE) fork of Grid Engine, the code has now been
adapted for the Open Grid Scheduler (OGS/Grid Engine 2011.11) fork; may no longer be compatible with SGE.
